INTRODUOTION

Cmnno's speech in vindieation of the Greek poet.
Archias—whose status as a Roman burgess (ciris), and
consequent right to be domiciled in Rome after the year
65 13.c., were impugned by an agent of the Pompeian
faetion named Gratius—brings before us two topics of
considerable interest to-day: the status of the resident
alien, and the value to be set upon a disinterested
cultivation of Letters. Rome's difficulty in regard to
the former question was not, as in our ease, economio,
but politieal z the steady growth of an immigrant popu-
lation formed, at the tIme when this oration was
deliver<d‚ a menaee to all stability of government. To
the other topic a perennial interest attae-hes. Himself
a man of affairs, and pleading before a jury of native
instinets the most practical, Cicero ihrows down the
glove to the utilitarian. No excuse, in the opinion of
1his acute and versatile spirit, is valid for the contempt

of Learning. Behind a man's professional equipment ξ 12.

there must be the wider reading of the liberal student ε

to make recreation an end in itself‚ is to reduce games to ξ 13-

the level of gambling.

Aliens αἱ Rome.

As her external relations expanded‚ the city of Rome he-
eameincreasingly the resort of non-burgosses- foreigners,
or Italians. Her poliey in rogard to the peninsula 11:111
been to impose treaties on the Italian states which,
cutting each off from reciproeal traffie with the res-t,
bound them severally to Rome on conditions admitting
to more or less of the sull franchise. It followed that,

